Name: Timothy Eng
Date: December 08, 2017

File: Extensions/Citations.txt

Purpose: Details extensions and citations for CS 1110 Assignment 7, Alien Invaders.

I felt that doing a Star Wars themed game would be appropiate for extensions, since it's in space after all, and also in recognition of
The Last Jedi coming out in a week or so. 

Extensions:

EXTENSION #1: The whole Star Wars theme. (Large majority of the changes made to the game, took most time to do).
-Aliens to TIE Fighters
-Ship to X-Wing
-Background to Death Star II
-Added introductory text to set up story (Battle of Endor)
-Added a timer attribute for introductory text

EXTENSION #2: KEY MODIFIERS/SPEED MODIFIERS:

-IF THE LEFT SHIFT KEY IS HELD DOWN, THE SHIP MOVES AT x2 SPEED.
-IF THE LEFT CONTROL KEY IS HELD DOWN, THE ALIENS MOVE AT x2 SPEED.

-IF THE TAB KEY IS HELD DOWN, THE BOLTS MOVE AT x2 SPEED.

In addition, I included the classic Space Invaders bug (the difficulty curve), so that every time a fighter dies, they speed up.
However, to add in the extra "Star Wars Thrill" as I call it, I changed it so that speed instead of being multiplied by 0.97 like suggested
I made it multiplied by 0.95. Not ridiculously hard but hard enough to make it interesting (of course it can be changed; it's in the last
line of def _check_Alien_Collision(self).

EXTENSION #3: Sound
Pretty self explanatory: added sound for when TIE fighter and X-Wing shoot.

EXTENSION #4: 
Score counter: keeps track of score (called kill count).
(also lives counter; although not an extension it was not required and I thought it appropiate to put it here).

EXTENSION #5: (? half extension)
New game: after losing a game, the player can play a new one. 

CITATIONS:

Art:
After looking at pictures online and from the movies of TIE Fighters, X-Wings, and the Death Star II, I went into Microsoft Paint, created
a black background, and tried to reproduce it until it seemed to resemble the ship I was trying to copy. This was, perhaps, harder than 
coding the project itself at times. It took me a couple hours per ship with many different versions, and I only include the final version
in the Images folder. Luckily, since they all have black backgrounds, I started with that and drew on top instead of filling in around 
the ships. Of course, this means that when flying over the Death Star background, there is some space where it will cover up the background
but I didn't want to spend too much time on the art. 

(You may also notice that there is an exploding TIE fighter strip in the Images folder; unfortunately, I did not have time to implement
it correctly so I just commented it out in my code since the 30 line rule only counts towards actual code, not spaces/comments).

Sound: SEE PICTURE IN INVADERS.ZIP called 'soundbible.png', shows laser cannon and ray gun file with Attribution 3.0.
The sound files were retrieved from a page on soundbible.com; however, since the actual website is down, I used archive.org to 
access an old copy of the website. I used the Laser Cannon and Ray Gun sound file, which both have an Attribution 3.0 License, 
for my sound extension. It took many hours, but I manipulated the sound files with Audacity, using bits from each and changing 
the pitch, repetition rate, speed, and so forth to create the TIE Fighter sound and X-Wing Sound for shooting. 
I used the original movies as my guide  (basically I listened to them and tried to manipulate my audacity file as 
much as I could to make it as similar as possible. It took me about twice as long as creating one of the images for the game 
for each sound file. 